# finance-de

## Project Dependencies

- uv
- python:3.13
- make
- docker

## How to run the step 1 (no idempotence at creation)

1. Copy the `[.env.default](deploy/.env.default)` file as `.env` in the `deploy` folder and fill with wanted values. 
    Make sure there is no empty lines or lines with comments since the file will be loaded in `export` command.
2. Run `make run-app` to run both the api and the database.
3. Run `make init-db` to run the creation script for the tables in the database (Will drop and re-create each time)
4. You can go to http://localhost:5555/docs to see the FastAPI swagger with all routes.
5. Fill `file_path` with `data/data_1.csv`, then `data/data_2.xlsx`
6. To access the database run with the variables you chose `psql "postgresql://${POSTGRES_USER}:${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}@localhost:${POSTGRES_PORT}/${POSTGRES_DB}"`

## Done

### Infra & config
- pyproject.toml generated by uv
- Makefile for running commands
- Dockerfile for the api
- Database SQL postgres:18 init script
- Docker compose file for both the api and the database

### API
- FastAPI backbone with /root, /docs and /health endpoints
- Settings for the API loaded from .env file 
- Connector with the database
- Read from CSV & excel in /upload
- Insert into database & upsert table people & organisation, but no logging or chosen method implemented

### Data
- person: insert & deduplication & cleaning first_names + phone
- organization: insert & deduplication
- job: FK reading linked to person and organization, casting of date

## To improve

- V0: Files read are in the data folder of the API container (volume shared in local).
  -> V1: Should have the files in a remote bucket and step one would be to download the files
- V0: almost everything in the codebase is custom or hardcoded. Make more generic.
- V0: almost no data validation, should have very strong formatting rules.

## Missing

- Error and retry handling strategy. When some rows are problematic, should discard only the errors and log this
in a file.
- Tests. All tests from e2e to unit to smoke tests.
- CI/CD. Should have a multistep CI/CD with at least: 
    - building the image
    - linter
    - tests & coverage checking
    - image deployment to registry
- DB migration system for database schemas creation and modification (`alembic`) and not a simple SQL script.
- ORM (like sqlalchemy or SQLModel) to enforce database table models into code, and make it modulable by table. Also should be used to keep track of created_at, updated_at, deleted_at fields
- Automated linter in pre-commit
